Vitamins are organic molecules essential for human metabolism that must be obtained through diet or supplements. Unless you are in poor health, i recommend getting all of your vitamins in your diet.  supplements are often more expensive than a better diet, difficult to absorb and in too-large a quantity.  In some cases near toxic levels.

There are 13 vitamins:

Vitamin A (all-trans-retinols, all-trans-retinyl-esters, as well as all-trans-beta-carotene and other provitamin A carotenoids)
Vitamin B1 (thiamine)
Vitamin B2 (riboflavin)
Vitamin B3 (niacin)
Vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid)
Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)
Vitamin B7 (biotin)
Vitamin B9 (folic acid and folates)
Vitamin B12 (cobalamins)
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid and ascorbates)
Vitamin D (calciferols)
Vitamin E (tocopherols and tocotrienols)
Vitamin K (phylloquinones, menaquinones, and menadiones)

The missing numbered B vitamins were reclassified or determined not to be vitamins. For example, B9 is folic acid 
Choline used to be vitamin B4, but joins pluto, with the other once-contenders.
F-J were reclassified, but the Dane who discovered vitamin K and its role in 'Koagulation' of the blood didn't know that at the time.

In setting human nutrient guidelines, government organizations do not necessarily agree on amounts needed to avoid deficiency or maximum amounts to avoid the risk of toxicity.

In those who are otherwise healthy, there is little evidence that supplements have any benefits with respect to cancer or heart disease. Vitamin A and E supplements not only provide no health benefits for generally healthy individuals, but they may increase mortality, though the two large studies that support this conclusion included smokers for whom it was already known that beta-carotene supplements can be harmful. A 2018 meta-analysis found no evidence that intake of vitamin D or calcium for community-dwelling elderly people reduced bone fractures.

how common are Vitamin deficiencies

Vitamin A  - leading cause of preventable childhood blindness; eat your carrots
Vitamin B1 - alcoholism can drive a deficiency; fortified breakfast cereal is enough of a preventative for most people
Vitamin B2  - fortified breakfast cereal is enough of a preventative for most people
Vitamin B3  - chronic alcoholism can drive a deficiency
Vitamin B5  - extremely rare
Vitamin B6  - uncommon; be mindful if you have kidney disease, chrons, celiac or ulcerative colitis
Vitamin B7  - rare, but a theme amongst b compounds....be mindful if you're alcoholic (watch during pregnancy/breastfeeding)
Vitamin B9 - common, associated with numerous health problems, even moreso during pregnancy. eat spinach, broccoli, strawberries...
Vitamin B12 - high risk for vegans.  folate supplementation can mask b12 deficiency.   eat meat, eggs, and dairy
Vitamin C - so rare that no countries fortify foods as a means of preventing this deficiency.  pirates on long sea voyages get scurvy though
Vitamin D - Common, most foods do not contain vitamin D, indicating that a deficiency will occur unless people get sunlight exposure or eat manufactured foods purposely fortified with vitamin D. 10 minutes of sun 3x a week in the summer will do you. 18 hours a week in the winter (assuming you're bundled up and not absorbing much UV rays. UVB SAD lamps can help too.   or eat a a few oz of salmon
Vitamin E - rare. like need a genetic defect rare.
Vitamin K - rare. except for newborns...that's why they ask you about vitamin k when you have a baby.

how common are too much vitamins

they're not except vitamin a and vitamin d because they're fat soluble
for your everyday concerns it boils down to :

vitamin a - essentially  don't eat polar bear liver 
vitamin d - don't take vitamin d supplements the risks aren't worth it if you overdo it.  get more sun, buy a UVB lamp and use it or eat better


